src/data/roadmaps/backend/content/instrumentation@4X-sbqpP0NDhM99bKdqIa.md, before:

# Instrumentation, Monitoring, and Telemetry

Instrumentation refers to the measure of a product's performance, in order to diagnose errors and to write trace information. Instrumentation can be of two types: source instrumentation and binary instrumentation.

Backend monitoring allows the user to view the performance of infrastructure i.e. the components that run a web application. These include the HTTP server, middleware, database, third-party API services, and more.

Telemetry is the process of continuously collecting data from different components of the application. This data helps engineering teams to troubleshoot issues across services and identify the root causes. In other words, telemetry data powers observability for your distributed applications.

Visit the following resources to learn more:

- [@article@What is Instrumentation?](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Instrumentation_\(computer_programming\))
- [@article@What is Monitoring?](https://www.yottaa.com/performance-monitoring-backend-vs-front-end-solutions/)
- [@article@What is Telemetry?](https://www.sumologic.com/insight/what-is-telemetry/)
- [@feed@Explore top posts about Monitoring](https://app.daily.dev/tags/monitoring?ref=roadmapsh)

Commit message:

Clean Backend Roadmap Links / Content (#7076)
* 95 topics complete

* 32 topics

* 8 topics

* Update src/data/roadmaps/backend/content/building-for-scale@SHmbcMRsc3SygEDksJQBD.md

* Update src/data/roadmaps/backend/content/architectural-patterns@tHiUpG9LN35E5RaHddMv5.md

---------

Co-authored-by: Kamran Ahmed <kamranahmed.se@gmail.com>

src/data/roadmaps/backend/content/instrumentation@4X-sbqpP0NDhM99bKdqIa.md, after:

# Instrumentation, Monitoring, and Telemetry

Instrumentation, monitoring, and telemetry are critical components for ensuring system reliability and performance. *Instrumentation* refers to embedding code or tools within applications to capture key metrics, logs, and traces. *Monitoring* involves observing these metrics in real time to detect anomalies, failures, or performance issues, often using dashboards and alerting systems. *Telemetry* is the automated collection and transmission of this data from distributed systems, enabling visibility into system behavior. Together, these practices provide insights into the health, usage, and performance of systems, aiding in proactive issue resolution and optimizing overall system efficiency.

Visit the following resources to learn more:

- [@article@What is Instrumentation?](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Instrumentation_\(computer_programming\))
- [@article@What is Monitoring?](https://www.yottaa.com/performance-monitoring-backend-vs-front-end-solutions/)
- [@article@What is Telemetry?](https://www.sumologic.com/insight/what-is-telemetry/)
- [@video@Observability vs. APM vs. Monitoring](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CAQ_a2-9UOI)
- [@feed@Explore top posts about Monitoring](https://app.daily.dev/tags/monitoring?ref=roadmapsh)
