src/data/roadmaps/backend/content/what-is-http@R12sArWVpbIs_PHxBqVaR.md, before:

# What is HTTP?

HTTP is the `TCP/IP` based application layer communication protocol which standardizes how the client and server communicate with each other. It defines how the content is requested and transmitted across the internet.

Visit the following resources to learn more:

- [@article@Everything you need to know about HTTP](https://cs.fyi/guide/http-in-depth)
- [@article@What is HTTP?](https://www.cloudflare.com/en-gb/learning/ddos/glossary/hypertext-transfer-protocol-http/)
- [@video@Full HTTP Networking Course](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2JYT5f2isg4)
- [@article@An overview of HTTP](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Overview)
- [@article@HTTP/3 From A To Z: Core Concepts](https://www.smashingmagazine.com/2021/08/http3-core-concepts-part1/)
- [@video@HTTP/1 to HTTP/2 to HTTP/3](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=a-sBfyiXysI)
- [@video@HTTP Crash Course & Exploration](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=iYM2zFP3Zn0)
- [@video@SSL, TLS, HTTPS Explained](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=j9QmMEWmcfo)

Commit message:

Clean Backend Roadmap Links / Content (#7076)
* 95 topics complete

* 32 topics

* 8 topics

* Update src/data/roadmaps/backend/content/building-for-scale@SHmbcMRsc3SygEDksJQBD.md

* Update src/data/roadmaps/backend/content/architectural-patterns@tHiUpG9LN35E5RaHddMv5.md

---------

Co-authored-by: Kamran Ahmed <kamranahmed.se@gmail.com>

src/data/roadmaps/backend/content/what-is-http@R12sArWVpbIs_PHxBqVaR.md, after:

# What is HTTP?

HTTP (Hypertext Transfer Protocol) is a protocol used for transmitting hypertext via the World Wide Web. It defines how messages are formatted and transmitted, and how web servers and browsers should respond to various commands. HTTP operates on a request-response model: a client (usually a web browser) sends an HTTP request to a server for resources, such as web pages or files, and the server responds with the requested content and an HTTP status code indicating the result of the request. HTTP is stateless, meaning each request from a client to a server is independent and does not retain information about previous interactions. It forms the foundation of data communication on the web and is typically used with secure HTTP (HTTPS) for encrypted communication.

Visit the following resources to learn more:

- [@article@What is HTTP?](https://www.cloudflare.com/en-gb/learning/ddos/glossary/hypertext-transfer-protocol-http/)
- [@article@An overview of HTTP](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Overview)
- [@article@HTTP/3 From A To Z: Core Concepts](https://www.smashingmagazine.com/2021/08/http3-core-concepts-part1/)
- [@course@Full HTTP Networking Course](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2JYT5f2isg4)
- [@video@HTTP/1 to HTTP/2 to HTTP/3](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=a-sBfyiXysI)
- [@video@SSL, TLS, HTTPS Explained](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=j9QmMEWmcfo)
