# Volume Mounts

Volume mounts are a key feature in Docker that helps in managing and persisting data generated by and used by containers. In this section, we will discuss the concept of volume mounts and how to use them with Docker containers.

### What are Volume Mounts

Volume mounts are a way to map a folder or file on the host system to a folder or file inside a container. This allows the data to persist outside the container even when the container is removed. Additionally, multiple containers can share the same volume, making data sharing between containers easy.

### Creating a Volume

To create a volume in Docker, you need to run the following command:

```
docker volume create my-volume
```

This command will create a volume named `my-volume`. You can inspect the details of the created volume using the command:

```
docker volume inspect my-volume
```

### Mounting a Volume in a Container

To mount a volume to a container, you need to use the `-v` or `--mount` flag while running the container. Here's an example:

Using `-v` flag:

```
docker run -d -v my-volume:/data your-image
```

Using `--mount` flag:

```
docker run -d --mount source=my-volume,destination=/data your-image
```

In both examples above, `my-volume` is the name of the volume we created earlier, and `/data` is the path inside the container where the volume will be mounted.

### Sharing Volumes Between Containers

To share a volume between multiple containers, simply mount the same volume on multiple containers. Here's how to share `my-volume` between two containers running different images:

```
docker run -d -v my-volume:/data1 image1
docker run -d -v my-volume:/data2 image2
```

In this example, `image1` and `image2` would have access to the same data stored in `my-volume`.

### Removing a Volume

To remove a volume, you can use the `docker volume rm` command followed by the volume name:

```
docker volume rm my-volume
```

**Note**: Removing a volume will delete all the data stored inside the volume. Make sure to backup the data beforehand.

That's it! Now you have a basic understanding of volume mounts in Docker. You can use them to persist and share data between your containers efficiently and securely.