src/data/roadmaps/frontend/frontend.md, before:

---
renderer: 'editor'
jsonUrl: '/jsons/roadmaps/frontend.json'
pdfUrl: '/pdfs/roadmaps/frontend.pdf'
order: 1
briefTitle: 'Frontend'
briefDescription: 'Step by step guide to becoming a frontend developer in 2025'
title: 'Frontend Developer'
description: 'Step by step guide to becoming a modern frontend developer in 2025'
hasTopics: true
tnsBannerLink: 'https://thenewstack.io?utm_source=roadmap.sh&utm_medium=Referral&utm_campaign=Alert'
question:
  title: 'What is a Frontend Developer?'
  description: |
    A frontend developer is a professional who uses HTML, CSS, and JavaScript to design and build the visual and interactive elements of websites and applications that users engage with directly. They ensure the interface is responsive, accessible, and visually appealing. Every feature you see and interact with on a website (like buttons, menus, and animations) is created by a frontend developer.

    ## What is the role of a Frontend Developer?

    While this is not a complete frontend developer job description, the following can be considered as a great introduction to the role of a frontend developer: you'll be responsible for creating the user interface of a website to ensure it looks good and is easy to use, with great focus on design principles and user experience. You'll be working closely with designers, back-end developers, and project managers to make sure the final product meets the client's needs and provides the best possible experience for the end-users.

    ## Which languages are used for Frontend Development?

    The easy part about the frontend development role is that there aren’t that many options to choose from when it comes to [frontend languages](https://roadmap.sh/frontend/languages) and [technologies](https://roadmap.sh/frontend/technologies) (unlike with backend development).

    As a frontend developer, you’ll be working with the following technologies:

    - **HTML**: The markup language used to create the skeleton of the page. All the information you want to show on a webpage will be laid out through HTML.
    - **CSS**: The Cascading Style Sheet language allows you to adjust the way in which the HTML elements are rendered, improving the visuals of your webpage.
    - **JavaScript**: This is the de facto programming language for frontend development, and it allows you to add dynamism to your websites/web apps. There is an alternative known as TypeScript, which is a strongly typed superset of JavaScript that you can use instead. However, in that scenario, you’d have to set up a transpiler to translate your code into JavaScript before being able to run it in the browser.

    ## What skills are required for a Frontend developer?

    The main skills required to become a frontend developer are HTML, CSS, and JavaScript. The rest are also important, but without those three basic ones, you can’t apply any of the others.

    The full list of [frontend developer skills](https://roadmap.sh/frontend/developer-skills) you should look into if you’re hoping to up your game is the following:

    **1. Understanding the core technologies**: HTML, CSS & JavaScript.  
    **2. Understanding accessibility**: Knowing how it can affect your users' experience.  
    **3. Version control systems**: Be familiar with tools like Git.  
    **4. Responsive design**: Implementing designs that adapt to different devices and screen sizes.  
    **5. User experience (UX)**: Understanding the basics of UX principles.  
    **6. SEO**: Knowing how search engine optimization works and how you can leverage it in your code.  
    **7. RESTful APIs**: Understanding the basics of RESTful APIs and how to consume them.  
    **8. Testing and debugging**: Implementing testing practices and debugging effectively.  
    **9. Dev tools**: Master the browser’s developer tools for inspecting, debugging, and optimizing code.  
    **10. Frameworks**: Having a go-to frontend framework (like React or Vue) and understanding others at a high level.  
    **11. Web performance**: Understanding web performance optimizations and core web vitals.  
    **12. TypeScript**: Understanding how TypeScript works and when to use it.

    Covering these basic skills will prepare you for any type of [frontend developer interview questions](https://roadmap.sh/questions/frontend) you might encounter in the future and will enhance your current role.

dimensions:
  width: 968
  height: 2775
schema:
  headline: 'Frontend Developer Roadmap: What is Frontend Development?'
  description: 'Learn what Frontend Development is, what frontend developers do and how to become a modern frontend developer using our community-driven roadmap.'
  imageUrl: 'https://roadmap.sh/roadmaps/frontend.png'
  datePublished: '2023-01-05'
  dateModified: '2023-01-20'
seo:
  title: 'Frontend Developer Roadmap: What is Frontend Development?'
  description: 'Learn what Frontend Development is, what frontend developers do and how to become a modern frontend developer using our community-driven roadmap.'
  keywords:
    - 'javascript roadmap 2024'
    - 'frontend roadmap 2024'
    - 'frontend developer roadmap 2024'
    - 'guide to becoming a developer'
    - 'guide to becoming a frontend developer'
    - 'frontend developer'
    - 'frontend engineer'
    - 'frontend skills'
    - 'frontend development'
    - 'javascript developer'
    - 'frontend development skills'
    - 'frontend development skills test'
    - 'frontend roadmap'
    - 'frontend engineer roadmap'
    - 'frontend developer roadmap'
    - 'become a frontend developer'
    - 'frontend developer career path'
    - 'javascript developer'
    - 'modern javascript developer'
    - 'node developer'
    - 'skills for frontend development'
    - 'learn frontend development'
    - 'what is frontend development'
    - 'frontend developer quiz'
    - 'frontend developer interview questions'
relatedRoadmaps:
  - 'full-stack'
  - 'javascript'
  - 'nodejs'
  - 'react'
  - 'angular'
  - 'vue'
  - 'design-system'
relatedQuestions:
  - 'javascript'
  - 'react'
sitemap:
  priority: 1
  changefreq: 'monthly'
tags:
  - 'roadmap'
  - 'main-sitemap'
  - 'role-roadmap'
---

Commit message:

Add support for replacing TNS partner banner

src/data/roadmaps/frontend/frontend.md, after:

---
renderer: 'editor'
jsonUrl: '/jsons/roadmaps/frontend.json'
pdfUrl: '/pdfs/roadmaps/frontend.pdf'
order: 1
briefTitle: 'Frontend'
briefDescription: 'Step by step guide to becoming a frontend developer in 2025'
title: 'Frontend Developer'
description: 'Step by step guide to becoming a modern frontend developer in 2025'
hasTopics: true
partner:
  description: "Get the latest Frontend news from our sister site"
  link: "https://thenewstack.io/?utm_source=roadmap.sh&utm_medium=Referral&utm_campaign=Alert"
  linkText: "TheNewStack.io"
question:
  title: 'What is a Frontend Developer?'
  description: |
    A frontend developer is a professional who uses HTML, CSS, and JavaScript to design and build the visual and interactive elements of websites and applications that users engage with directly. They ensure the interface is responsive, accessible, and visually appealing. Every feature you see and interact with on a website (like buttons, menus, and animations) is created by a frontend developer.

    ## What is the role of a Frontend Developer?

    While this is not a complete frontend developer job description, the following can be considered as a great introduction to the role of a frontend developer: you'll be responsible for creating the user interface of a website to ensure it looks good and is easy to use, with great focus on design principles and user experience. You'll be working closely with designers, back-end developers, and project managers to make sure the final product meets the client's needs and provides the best possible experience for the end-users.

    ## Which languages are used for Frontend Development?

    The easy part about the frontend development role is that there aren’t that many options to choose from when it comes to [frontend languages](https://roadmap.sh/frontend/languages) and [technologies](https://roadmap.sh/frontend/technologies) (unlike with backend development).

    As a frontend developer, you’ll be working with the following technologies:

    - **HTML**: The markup language used to create the skeleton of the page. All the information you want to show on a webpage will be laid out through HTML.
    - **CSS**: The Cascading Style Sheet language allows you to adjust the way in which the HTML elements are rendered, improving the visuals of your webpage.
    - **JavaScript**: This is the de facto programming language for frontend development, and it allows you to add dynamism to your websites/web apps. There is an alternative known as TypeScript, which is a strongly typed superset of JavaScript that you can use instead. However, in that scenario, you’d have to set up a transpiler to translate your code into JavaScript before being able to run it in the browser.

    ## What skills are required for a Frontend developer?

    The main skills required to become a frontend developer are HTML, CSS, and JavaScript. The rest are also important, but without those three basic ones, you can’t apply any of the others.

    The full list of [frontend developer skills](https://roadmap.sh/frontend/developer-skills) you should look into if you’re hoping to up your game is the following:

    **1. Understanding the core technologies**: HTML, CSS & JavaScript.  
    **2. Understanding accessibility**: Knowing how it can affect your users' experience.  
    **3. Version control systems**: Be familiar with tools like Git.  
    **4. Responsive design**: Implementing designs that adapt to different devices and screen sizes.  
    **5. User experience (UX)**: Understanding the basics of UX principles.  
    **6. SEO**: Knowing how search engine optimization works and how you can leverage it in your code.  
    **7. RESTful APIs**: Understanding the basics of RESTful APIs and how to consume them.  
    **8. Testing and debugging**: Implementing testing practices and debugging effectively.  
    **9. Dev tools**: Master the browser’s developer tools for inspecting, debugging, and optimizing code.  
    **10. Frameworks**: Having a go-to frontend framework (like React or Vue) and understanding others at a high level.  
    **11. Web performance**: Understanding web performance optimizations and core web vitals.  
    **12. TypeScript**: Understanding how TypeScript works and when to use it.

    Covering these basic skills will prepare you for any type of [frontend developer interview questions](https://roadmap.sh/questions/frontend) you might encounter in the future and will enhance your current role.

dimensions:
  width: 968
  height: 2775
schema:
  headline: 'Frontend Developer Roadmap: What is Frontend Development?'
  description: 'Learn what Frontend Development is, what frontend developers do and how to become a modern frontend developer using our community-driven roadmap.'
  imageUrl: 'https://roadmap.sh/roadmaps/frontend.png'
  datePublished: '2023-01-05'
  dateModified: '2023-01-20'
seo:
  title: 'Frontend Developer Roadmap: What is Frontend Development?'
  description: 'Learn what Frontend Development is, what frontend developers do and how to become a modern frontend developer using our community-driven roadmap.'
  keywords:
    - 'javascript roadmap 2024'
    - 'frontend roadmap 2024'
    - 'frontend developer roadmap 2024'
    - 'guide to becoming a developer'
    - 'guide to becoming a frontend developer'
    - 'frontend developer'
    - 'frontend engineer'
    - 'frontend skills'
    - 'frontend development'
    - 'javascript developer'
    - 'frontend development skills'
    - 'frontend development skills test'
    - 'frontend roadmap'
    - 'frontend engineer roadmap'
    - 'frontend developer roadmap'
    - 'become a frontend developer'
    - 'frontend developer career path'
    - 'javascript developer'
    - 'modern javascript developer'
    - 'node developer'
    - 'skills for frontend development'
    - 'learn frontend development'
    - 'what is frontend development'
    - 'frontend developer quiz'
    - 'frontend developer interview questions'
relatedRoadmaps:
  - 'full-stack'
  - 'javascript'
  - 'nodejs'
  - 'react'
  - 'angular'
  - 'vue'
  - 'design-system'
relatedQuestions:
  - 'javascript'
  - 'react'
sitemap:
  priority: 1
  changefreq: 'monthly'
tags:
  - 'roadmap'
  - 'main-sitemap'
  - 'role-roadmap'
---
