# Concepts and Terminologies

Following are the main concepts and terminologies in Kubernetes:

1. Cluster: A group of machines, either physical or virtual, that run Kubernetes and work together to host your applications.
2. Node: A single machine in a cluster that runs containers.
3. Pod: The smallest and simplest unit in the Kubernetes object model, representing a single instance of a running process in your cluster.
4. Deployment: A higher-level object that manages replicas of your application and updates to them. A deployment ensures that a specified number of pods are running at any given time.
5. Service: An abstraction that defines a logical set of pods and a policy by which to access them. Services enable communication between pods and expose your application to the network.
6. Volume: A way to persist data generated by and used by containers. Volumes allow data to survive beyond the lifetime of a single pod.
7. Label: A key-value pair that can be attached to objects in Kubernetes, used to organize and select subsets of objects.
8. Namespace: A virtual cluster for organizing resources within a physical cluster. Used for isolating resources and sharing cluster access.
9. Kubelet: An agent that runs on each node in the cluster and communicates with the control plane to ensure that containers are running as expected.
10. kubectl: A command-line tool for interacting with a Kubernetes cluster.

Learn more from the following links:

- [Concepts - Kubernetes](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/)
- [Overview of Kubernetes](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/overview/)
- [Kubernetes Basics](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B_X4l4HSgtc)