src/data/roadmaps/spring-boot/content/spring-security/authorization.md, before:

# Authorization

Spring Security supports a variety of authentication mechanisms, such as username and password authentication, OAuth2, and more. Once a user is authenticated, Spring Security can then be used to authorize that user's access to specific resources or functionality. There are several annotations that can be used to control access to specific methods or classes.

Visit the following resources to learn more:

- [@official@Spring Authorization](https://docs.spring.io/spring-security/reference/servlet/authorization/index.html)
- [@official@Authorization: Roles and Authorities by Hyperskill (JetBrains Academy)](https://hyperskill.org/learn/step/31611)
- [@article@Advanced authorization in Spring](https://docs.spring.io/spring-security/site/docs/5.2.11.RELEASE/reference/html/authorization.html)
- [@article@Spring Security: Authentication and Authorization In-Depth](https://www.marcobehler.com/guides/spring-security)
- [@feed@Explore top posts about Authorization](https://app.daily.dev/tags/authorization?ref=roadmapsh)

Commit message:

add Getting Started with Spring Security article

src/data/roadmaps/spring-boot/content/spring-security/authorization.md, after:

# Authorization

Spring Security supports a variety of authentication mechanisms, such as username and password authentication, OAuth2, and more. Once a user is authenticated, Spring Security can then be used to authorize that user's access to specific resources or functionality. There are several annotations that can be used to control access to specific methods or classes.

Visit the following resources to learn more:

- [@official@Spring Authorization](https://docs.spring.io/spring-security/reference/servlet/authorization/index.html)
- [@article@Getting Started with Spring Security by Hyperskill (JetBrains Academy)](https://hyperskill.org/learn/step/13856)
- [@article@Authorization: Roles and Authorities by Hyperskill (JetBrains Academy)](https://hyperskill.org/learn/step/31611)
- [@article@Advanced authorization in Spring](https://docs.spring.io/spring-security/site/docs/5.2.11.RELEASE/reference/html/authorization.html)
- [@article@Spring Security: Authentication and Authorization In-Depth](https://www.marcobehler.com/guides/spring-security)
- [@feed@Explore top posts about Authorization](https://app.daily.dev/tags/authorization?ref=roadmapsh)
