src/data/roadmaps/linux/content/109-package-management/index.md, before:

# Package Management 

Package Management is a crucial concept in Linux that aids in the handling of packages (collections of files). It not only allows the user to install new software with single commands but also helps manage existing ones. This includes installing, updating, configuring, and removing software packages. Package management incorporates a standardized system that keeps track of every software's prerequisites and takes care of installation, updates and removal.

Linux distributions use various package managers. Some of the commonly used are `apt` (Advanced Packaging Tool) for Debian-based distributions, `yum` (Yellowdog Updater, Modified) and `dnf` (Dandified YUM) for Red-Hat-based distributions, and `pacman` for Arch Linux.

For instance, to install a package in a Debian-based distribution, you would use the following command in apt:

```bash
sudo apt-get install <package-name>
```

Such vital features have made package management systems an integral part of Linux distributions, allowing users to handle applications efficiently.

Commit message:

Updates to the Linux Roadmap (#7149)
* add Practice Linux Commands with Hands-on Labs

* Update public/roadmap-content/devops.json

Co-authored-by: Arik Chakma <arikchangma@gmail.com>

* Update public/roadmap-content/devops.json

* add linux free tutorials

---------

Co-authored-by: huhuhang <huhuhang@github.com>
Co-authored-by: dsh <daniel.s.holdsworth@gmail.com>
Co-authored-by: Arik Chakma <arikchangma@gmail.com>
Co-authored-by: huhuhang <no-reply@huhuhang.com>

src/data/roadmaps/linux/content/109-package-management/index.md, after:

# Package Management

Package Management is a crucial concept in Linux that aids in the handling of packages (collections of files). It not only allows the user to install new software with single commands but also helps manage existing ones. This includes installing, updating, configuring, and removing software packages. Package management incorporates a standardized system that keeps track of every software's prerequisites and takes care of installation, updates and removal.

Linux distributions use various package managers. Some of the commonly used are `apt` (Advanced Packaging Tool) for Debian-based distributions, `yum` (Yellowdog Updater, Modified) and `dnf` (Dandified YUM) for Red-Hat-based distributions, and `pacman` for Arch Linux.

For instance, to install a package in a Debian-based distribution, you would use the following command in apt:

```bash
sudo apt-get install <package-name>
```

Such vital features have made package management systems an integral part of Linux distributions, allowing users to handle applications efficiently.

Learn more from the following resources:

- [@article@Software Installation on Linux](https://labex.io/tutorials/linux-software-installation-on-linux-18005)
