src/data/roadmaps/linux/content/100-navigation-basics/102-creating-files.md, before:

# Creating Files

Creating files in Linux is about making new blank or filled files on your computer. You can use commands like `touch` to create an empty file, `echo` to make a file with some text inside, or `cat` to type directly into a new file. These commands help you set up and save your documents or data.

Here's an example of file creation with the `touch` command:

```bash
touch newfile.txt
```

and with `cat` command:

```bash
cat > newfile.txt
```

Both these commands create a new "newfile.txt" if it does not already exist.

# Deleting Files

Deleting files in Linux means getting rid of unwanted or unnecessary files from your computer. You use the `rm` command to delete a file, and it’s permanent, so be careful. You can also use `rm -i` (interactive) to ask for confirmation before deleting, which helps prevent accidental loss of important files.

```bash
# Deletes the file named example.txt
rm example.txt
```

```bash
# Ask for confirmation
rm -i [filename]
```
```bash
# Removes an empty directory
rmdir [directory] 
```

Commit message:

Updates to the Linux Roadmap (#7149)
* add Practice Linux Commands with Hands-on Labs

* Update public/roadmap-content/devops.json

Co-authored-by: Arik Chakma <arikchangma@gmail.com>

* Update public/roadmap-content/devops.json

* add linux free tutorials

---------

Co-authored-by: huhuhang <huhuhang@github.com>
Co-authored-by: dsh <daniel.s.holdsworth@gmail.com>
Co-authored-by: Arik Chakma <arikchangma@gmail.com>
Co-authored-by: huhuhang <no-reply@huhuhang.com>

src/data/roadmaps/linux/content/100-navigation-basics/102-creating-files.md, after:

# Creating Files

Creating files in Linux is about making new blank or filled files on your computer. You can use commands like `touch` to create an empty file, `echo` to make a file with some text inside, or `cat` to type directly into a new file. These commands help you set up and save your documents or data.

Here's an example of file creation with the `touch` command:

```bash
touch newfile.txt
```

and with `cat` command:

```bash
cat > newfile.txt
```

Both these commands create a new "newfile.txt" if it does not already exist.

# Deleting Files

Deleting files in Linux means getting rid of unwanted or unnecessary files from your computer. You use the `rm` command to delete a file, and it’s permanent, so be careful. You can also use `rm -i` (interactive) to ask for confirmation before deleting, which helps prevent accidental loss of important files.

```bash
# Deletes the file named example.txt
rm example.txt
```

```bash
# Ask for confirmation
rm -i [filename]
```

```bash
# Removes an empty directory
rmdir [directory] 
```

Learn more from the following resources:

- [@article@Linux rm Command: File Removing](https://labex.io/tutorials/linux-linux-rm-command-file-removing-209741)
