src/data/roadmaps/backend/backend.md, before:

---
renderer: 'editor'
jsonUrl: '/jsons/roadmaps/backend.json'
pdfUrl: '/pdfs/roadmaps/backend.pdf'
order: 2
briefTitle: 'Backend'
briefDescription: 'Step by step guide to becoming a backend developer in 2025'
title: 'Backend Developer'
description: 'Step by step guide to becoming a modern backend developer in 2025'
hasTopics: true
isForkable: false
tnsBannerLink: 'https://thenewstack.io?utm_source=roadmap.sh&utm_medium=Referral&utm_campaign=Alert'
question:
  title: 'What is Backend Development?'
  description: |
    Backend development refers to the server-side aspect of web development, focusing on creating and managing the server logic, databases, and APIs. It involves handling user authentication, authorization, and processing user requests, typically using [backend development languages](https://roadmap.sh/backend/languages) such as Python, Java, Ruby, PHP, JavaScript (Node.js), and .NET.

    ## What does a Backend Developer do?
    A backend developer focuses on creating and maintaining the server-side components of web applications. They are primarily tasked with developing server-side APIs, handling database operations, and ensuring that the backend can manage high traffic volumes efficiently. Key responsibilities include integrating external services such as payment gateways and cloud services, and enhancing the performance and scalability of systems. This role is crucial for processing and securing data, serving as the backbone that supports frontend developers in delivering a seamless user experience.
dimensions:
  width: 968
  height: 3500
schema:
  headline: 'Backend Developer Roadmap: What is Backend Development?'
  description: 'Learn what backend development is, what backend developers do and how to become one using our community-driven roadmap.'
  imageUrl: 'https://roadmap.sh/roadmaps/backend.png'
  datePublished: '2023-01-05'
  dateModified: '2023-09-16'
seo:
  title: 'Backend Developer Roadmap: What is Backend Development?'
  description: 'Learn what backend development is, what backend developers do and how to become one using our community-driven roadmap.'
  keywords:
    - 'backend roadmap 2024'
    - 'backend developer roadmap 2024'
    - 'guide to becoming a developer'
    - 'guide to becoming a backend developer'
    - 'backend roadmap'
    - 'backend developer'
    - 'backend engineer'
    - 'backend skills'
    - 'backend development'
    - 'javascript developer'
    - 'backend development skills'
    - 'backend development skills test'
    - 'backend engineer roadmap'
    - 'backend developer roadmap'
    - 'become a backend developer'
    - 'backend developer career path'
    - 'javascript developer'
    - 'modern javascript developer'
    - 'node developer'
    - 'skills for backend development'
    - 'learn backend development'
    - 'what is backend development'
    - 'backend developer quiz'
    - 'backend developer interview questions'
relatedRoadmaps:
  - 'docker'
  - 'full-stack'
  - 'system-design'
  - 'python'
  - 'java'
  - 'golang'
  - 'devops'
  - 'javascript'
  - 'nodejs'
  - 'postgresql-dba'
relatedQuestions:
  - 'javascript'
sitemap:
  priority: 1
  changefreq: 'monthly'
tags:
  - 'roadmap'
  - 'main-sitemap'
  - 'role-roadmap'
---

Commit message:

Add support for replacing TNS partner banner

src/data/roadmaps/backend/backend.md, after:

---
renderer: 'editor'
jsonUrl: '/jsons/roadmaps/backend.json'
pdfUrl: '/pdfs/roadmaps/backend.pdf'
order: 2
briefTitle: 'Backend'
briefDescription: 'Step by step guide to becoming a backend developer in 2025'
title: 'Backend Developer'
description: 'Step by step guide to becoming a modern backend developer in 2025'
hasTopics: true
isForkable: false
partner:
  description: "Get the latest Backend news from our sister site"
  link: "https://thenewstack.io/?utm_source=roadmap.sh&utm_medium=Referral&utm_campaign=Alert"
  linkText: "TheNewStack.io"
question:
  title: 'What is Backend Development?'
  description: |
    Backend development refers to the server-side aspect of web development, focusing on creating and managing the server logic, databases, and APIs. It involves handling user authentication, authorization, and processing user requests, typically using [backend development languages](https://roadmap.sh/backend/languages) such as Python, Java, Ruby, PHP, JavaScript (Node.js), and .NET.

    ## What does a Backend Developer do?
    A backend developer focuses on creating and maintaining the server-side components of web applications. They are primarily tasked with developing server-side APIs, handling database operations, and ensuring that the backend can manage high traffic volumes efficiently. Key responsibilities include integrating external services such as payment gateways and cloud services, and enhancing the performance and scalability of systems. This role is crucial for processing and securing data, serving as the backbone that supports frontend developers in delivering a seamless user experience.
dimensions:
  width: 968
  height: 3500
schema:
  headline: 'Backend Developer Roadmap: What is Backend Development?'
  description: 'Learn what backend development is, what backend developers do and how to become one using our community-driven roadmap.'
  imageUrl: 'https://roadmap.sh/roadmaps/backend.png'
  datePublished: '2023-01-05'
  dateModified: '2023-09-16'
seo:
  title: 'Backend Developer Roadmap: What is Backend Development?'
  description: 'Learn what backend development is, what backend developers do and how to become one using our community-driven roadmap.'
  keywords:
    - 'backend roadmap 2024'
    - 'backend developer roadmap 2024'
    - 'guide to becoming a developer'
    - 'guide to becoming a backend developer'
    - 'backend roadmap'
    - 'backend developer'
    - 'backend engineer'
    - 'backend skills'
    - 'backend development'
    - 'javascript developer'
    - 'backend development skills'
    - 'backend development skills test'
    - 'backend engineer roadmap'
    - 'backend developer roadmap'
    - 'become a backend developer'
    - 'backend developer career path'
    - 'javascript developer'
    - 'modern javascript developer'
    - 'node developer'
    - 'skills for backend development'
    - 'learn backend development'
    - 'what is backend development'
    - 'backend developer quiz'
    - 'backend developer interview questions'
relatedRoadmaps:
  - 'docker'
  - 'full-stack'
  - 'system-design'
  - 'python'
  - 'java'
  - 'golang'
  - 'devops'
  - 'javascript'
  - 'nodejs'
  - 'postgresql-dba'
relatedQuestions:
  - 'javascript'
sitemap:
  priority: 1
  changefreq: 'monthly'
tags:
  - 'roadmap'
  - 'main-sitemap'
  - 'role-roadmap'
---
