src/data/roadmaps/software-architect/content/javascript--typescript@bhP5gMpRVebSFpCeHVXBj.md, before:

# JavaScript

JavaScript allows you to add interactivity to your pages. Common examples that you may have seen on the websites are sliders, click interactions, popups and so on. Apart from being used on the frontend in browsers, there is Node.js which is an open-source, cross-platform, back-end JavaScript runtime environment that runs on the V8 engine and executes JavaScript code outside a web browser.

Visit the following resources to learn more:

- [@roadmap@Visit Dedicated JavaScript Roadmap](https://roadmap.sh/javascript)
- [@article@W3Schools – JavaScript Tutorial](https://www.w3schools.com/js/)
- [@article@The Modern JavaScript Tutorial](https://javascript.info/)
- [@video@JavaScript Crash Course for Beginners](https://youtu.be/hdI2bqOjy3c)
- [@video@Node.js Crash Course](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fBNz5xF-Kx4)
- [@video@Node.js Tutorial for Beginners](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TlB_eWDSMt4)
- [@article@Official Website](https://www.typescriptlang.org/)
- [@article@Official Docs for Deep Dives](https://www.typescriptlang.org/docs/)
- [@article@The TypeScript Handbook](https://www.typescriptlang.org/docs/handbook/intro.html)
- [@article@TypeScript Tutorial](https://www.tutorialspoint.com/typescript/index.htm)
- [@video@TypeScript for Beginners](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BwuLxPH8IDs)
- [@feed@Explore top posts about JavaScript](https://app.daily.dev/tags/javascript?ref=roadmapsh)

Commit message:

Improve software architect roadmap content (#7821)
* Phase A

* Phase B

* Phase C

* Phase D

* Phase E

* Phase F

* Phase - G

* Phase H

* Phase - I

* Phase - J

* Phase - <K>

src/data/roadmaps/software-architect/content/javascript--typescript@bhP5gMpRVebSFpCeHVXBj.md, after:

# JavaScript

JavaScript allows you to add interactivity to your pages. Common examples that you may have seen on the websites are sliders, click interactions, popups and so on. Apart from being used on the frontend in browsers, there is Node.js which is an open-source, cross-platform, back-end JavaScript runtime environment that runs on the V8 engine and executes JavaScript code outside a web browser. TypeScript adds optional types to JavaScript that support tools for large-scale JavaScript applications for any browser, for any host, on any OS. TypeScript compiles to readable, standards-based JavaScript.

Visit the following resources to learn more:

- [@roadmap@Visit Dedicated JavaScript Roadmap](https://roadmap.sh/javascript)
- [@roadmap@Visit Dedicated TypedScript Roadmap](https://roadmap.sh/typescript)
- [@official@TypeScript](https://www.typescriptlang.org/)
- [@official@TypeScript Docs for Deep Dives](https://www.typescriptlang.org/docs/)
- [@article@The Modern JavaScript Tutorial](https://javascript.info/)
- [@video@JavaScript Crash Course for Beginners](https://youtu.be/hdI2bqOjy3c)
- [@video@Node.js Crash Course](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fBNz5xF-Kx4)
- [@video@Node.js Tutorial for Beginners](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TlB_eWDSMt4)
- [@video@TypeScript for Beginners](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BwuLxPH8IDs)
- [@feed@Explore top posts about JavaScript](https://app.daily.dev/tags/javascript?ref=roadmapsh)
