src/data/roadmaps/software-architect/content/responsibilities@rUxbG2S2nJuA1YVY6sjiX.md, before:

# Architect Responsibilities

To understand the necessary skills an architect needs, we first need to understand typical activities. The following list contains from my perspective the most important activities:

- Define and decide development technology and platform
- Define development standards, e.g., coding standards, tools, review processes, test approach, etc.
- Support identifying and understanding business requirements
- Design systems and take decisions based on requirements
- Document and communicate architectural definitions, design and decisions
- Check and review architecture and code, e.g., check if defined patterns and coding standards are implemented properly
- Collaborate with other architects and stakeholders
- Coach and consult developers
- Make sure that as implementation takes place, the architecture is being adhered to
- Play a key part in reviewing code
- Detail out and refine higher level design into lower level design

_Note: Architecture is a continuous activity, especially when it is applied in agile software development. Therefore, these activities are done over and over again._

Commit message:

Improve software architect roadmap content (#7821)
* Phase A

* Phase B

* Phase C

* Phase D

* Phase E

* Phase F

* Phase - G

* Phase H

* Phase - I

* Phase - J

* Phase - <K>

src/data/roadmaps/software-architect/content/responsibilities@rUxbG2S2nJuA1YVY6sjiX.md, after:

# Architect Responsibilities

To understand the necessary skills an architect needs, we first need to understand typical activities. The following list contains from my perspective the most important activities:

- Define and decide development technology and platform
- Define development standards, e.g., coding standards, tools, review processes, test approach, etc.
- Support identifying and understanding business requirements
- Design systems and take decisions based on requirements
- Document and communicate architectural definitions, design and decisions
- Check and review architecture and code, e.g., check if defined patterns and coding standards are implemented properly
- Collaborate with other architects and stakeholders
- Coach and consult developers
- Make sure that as implementation takes place, the architecture is being adhered to
- Play a key part in reviewing code
- Detail out and refine higher level design into lower level design

Visit the following resources to learn more:

- [@article@Software Architect](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Software_architect)
