src/data/roadmaps/prompt-engineering/content/103-real-world/104-study-buddy.md, before:

# Study Buddy

One of our favorite ways to use LLMs is as a study tool! In particular, it is useful for explaining confusing terms as well as quizzing you on test content.

## Explaining Terms

I was recently reading a textbook about Cacti1, and saw this passage:

```
Because of adaptations to xeric conditions and the presence of **less derived woods** in Pereskioideae, the Cactaceae is one of the most interesting families both anatomically and morphologically.
```

I had no idea what less derived woods meant, and Google only showed research articles on it. I decided to use ChatGPT to find out what it meant. I gave it the following prompt, which is simple the passage from the book and my question.

```
Because of adaptations to xeric conditions and the presence of less derived woods in Pereskioideae, the Cactaceae is one of the most interesting families both anatomically and morphologically. 

What do less derived woods mean?
```

The model responded with:

```
In this context, "less derived woods" refers to the ancestral or primitive form of wood found in the early evolution of plants. These woods lack specialized structures and features that evolved later in more derived or advanced plants. In the Pereskioideae subfamily of the Cactaceae family, the wood is less derived compared to other subfamilies and is more similar to the wood found in non-cactus plants. The less derived wood in Pereskioideae is thought to be an adaptation to the more humid and less xeric environments in which these plants grow compared to other cacti.
```

The model was able to answer my question quickly and I was able to continue with my reading.

## Quizzing Yourself

Another way to use LLMs as a study tool is to quiz yourself. If you have an upcoming calculus test, you could simply ask:

```
Generate 5 calculus I quiz questions for me:
```

And the model will generate 5 questions for you to answer.

```
1. What is the derivative of y = x3?
2. Evaluate the indefinite integral of x3 + 5x2 + 7x + 4.
3. What is the product rule for derivatives?
4. Find the equation of the line tangent to y = x2 at the point (4, 16).
5. What is the second derivative of y = x4?
```

There are probably other ways to use LLMs to study. Many learning companies like Duolingo and Quizlet are implementing LLMs into their products.

- [@article@LLMs as a Study Buddy](https://learnprompting.org/docs/basic_applications/study_tool)

Commit message:

📃 docs: (Prompt Eng.) Real World Uses - Content & Links.
- intent:
  - Update topic and links from May 2023 to Oct 2024.
  - Realword use cases are dynamic and evolving.
  - Remodelled existing examples.

- data: src/data/roadmaps/prompt-engineering/content/
  - 📂 103-real-world

   - modify: Content Improve, 1st paragraph.

    - modify: Expanded Content paragraphs
      - index.md
      - 100-structured-data.md
      - 101-inferring.md
      - 102-writing-emails.md
      - 103-coding-assistance.md
      - 104-study-buddy.md
      - 105-designing-chatbots.md

    - modify: Links New
      - index.md
      - 100-structured-data.md
      - 101-inferring.md
      - 102-writing-emails.md
      - 103-coding-assistance.md
      - 104-study-buddy.md
      - 105-designing-chatbots.md

BREAKINGCHANGE: ❌
---

Co-authored-by: @iPoetDev <ipoetdev-github-no-reply@outlook.com>

src/data/roadmaps/prompt-engineering/content/103-real-world/104-study-buddy.md, after:

# Study Buddy

LLMs have become powerful study & tutoring tools, offering various applications in education. They can explain complex terms, generate quizzes, and provide personalized learning experiences adapted to individual needs, including neurodivergent learning styles. Recent developments have expanded their capabilities to include multilingual support, automated grading and feedback, content creation for diverse educational materials, and improved accessibility for all students. These advancements enable LLMs to enhance comprehension, retention, and overall educational outcomes while allowing educators to focus on more complex tasks.

## Explaining Terms

I was recently reading a textbook about Cacti1, and saw this passage:

```
Because of adaptations to xeric conditions and the presence of **less derived woods** in Pereskioideae, the Cactaceae is one of the most interesting families both anatomically and morphologically.
```

I had no idea what less derived woods meant, and Google only showed research articles on it. I decided to use ChatGPT to find out what it meant. I gave it the following prompt, which is simple the passage from the book and my question.

```
Because of adaptations to xeric conditions and the presence of less derived woods in Pereskioideae, the Cactaceae is one of the most interesting families both anatomically and morphologically. 

What do less derived woods mean?
```

The model responded with:

```
In this context, "less derived woods" refers to the ancestral or primitive form of wood found in the early evolution of plants. These woods lack specialized structures and features that evolved later in more derived or advanced plants. In the Pereskioideae subfamily of the Cactaceae family, the wood is less derived compared to other subfamilies and is more similar to the wood found in non-cactus plants. The less derived wood in Pereskioideae is thought to be an adaptation to the more humid and less xeric environments in which these plants grow compared to other cacti.
```

The model was able to answer my question quickly and I was able to continue with my reading.

## Quizzing Yourself

Another way to use LLMs as a study tool is to quiz yourself. If you have an upcoming calculus test, you could simply ask:

```
Generate 5 calculus I quiz questions for me:
```

And the model will generate 5 questions for you to answer.

```
1. What is the derivative of y = x3?
2. Evaluate the indefinite integral of x3 + 5x2 + 7x + 4.
3. What is the product rule for derivatives?
4. Find the equation of the line tangent to y = x2 at the point (4, 16).
5. What is the second derivative of y = x4?
```

There are probably other ways to use LLMs to study. Many learning companies like Duolingo and Quizlet are implementing LLMs into their products.

Learn more from the following resources:

- [@article@LLMs as a Study Buddy](https://learnprompting.org/docs/basic_applications/study_tool)
-
