src/data/roadmaps/linux/content/shell-basics/command-help.md, before:

# Command Help

Command help in Linux is an essential feature that enables users to navigate through Linux shell commands with ease. This feature displays brief information on how to use these commands. For instance, typing 'man' before any command brings up the manual entry for that command which explains what the command does, its syntax and the available options. Another popular command is 'help' which is more suited for shell built-in functions, giving a brief description about each. These command line services are extremely beneficial for beginners trying to learn how to use the Linux shell, as well as seasoned users who may need to look up the specifics of seldom used commands. You can also get a TLDR of a command with example usage by using the TLDR package.

To view the manual entry for any command, use:

```bash
man [command]
```

For built-in shell functions, use:

```bash
help [command]
```

To view examples with TLDR, use:

```bash
tldr [command]
```

Learn more from the following resources:

- [@article@How to use the man page](https://www.baeldung.com/linux/man-command)
- [@opensource@tldr-pages/tldr](https://github.com/tldr-pages/tldr)
- [@article@Get Help on Linux Commands](https://labex.io/tutorials/linux-get-help-on-linux-commands-18000)

Commit message:

chore(topic): add `help` example (#8514)
* Update command-help.md

Feat: Adding the --help flag explanation

* Update src/data/roadmaps/linux/content/shell-basics/command-help.md

* Update command-help.md

---------

Co-authored-by: Arik Chakma <arikchangma@gmail.com>

src/data/roadmaps/linux/content/shell-basics/command-help.md, after:

# Command Help

Command help in Linux is an essential feature that enables users to navigate through Linux shell commands with ease. This feature displays brief information on how to use these commands. For instance, typing 'man' before any command brings up the manual entry for that command which explains what the command does, its syntax and the available options. Another popular command is 'help' which is more suited for shell built-in functions, giving a brief description about each. These command line services are extremely beneficial for beginners trying to learn how to use the Linux shell, as well as seasoned users who may need to look up the specifics of seldom used commands. You can also get a TLDR of a command with example usage by using the TLDR package.

To view the manual entry for any command, use:

```bash
man [command]
```

For built-in shell functions, use:

```bash
help [command]
```

Moreover, you can add the *--help* flag to almost any command to get more information about it.
For example:
```bash
date --help
```

To view examples with TLDR, use:

```bash
tldr [command]
```

Learn more from the following resources:

- [@article@How to use the man page](https://www.baeldung.com/linux/man-command)
- [@opensource@tldr-pages/tldr](https://github.com/tldr-pages/tldr)
- [@article@Get Help on Linux Commands](https://labex.io/tutorials/linux-get-help-on-linux-commands-18000)
