src/data/roadmaps/devops/devops.md, before:

---
jsonUrl: '/jsons/roadmaps/devops.json'
pdfUrl: '/pdfs/roadmaps/devops.pdf'
order: 3
renderer: 'editor'
briefTitle: 'DevOps'
briefDescription: 'Step by step guide for DevOps or operations role in 2025'
title: 'DevOps Roadmap'
description: 'Step by step guide for DevOps, SRE or any other Operations Role in 2025'
hasTopics: true
isForkable: false
tnsBannerLink: 'https://thenewstack.io?utm_source=roadmap.sh&utm_medium=Referral&utm_campaign=Alert'
question:
  title: 'What is DevOps?'
  description: |
    DevOps is a cultural and collaborative mindset that emphasizes communication, collaboration, integration, and [automation](https://roadmap.sh/devops/automation) between development and operations teams to achieve faster and more reliable software delivery.

    DevOps is not a specific job title or role, but rather a set of principles and practices that can be applied across a variety of roles in software development and IT operations. Anyone involved in the software development and delivery process can adopt a DevOps mindset and apply DevOps practices in their work, including developers, testers, operations engineers, product managers, and others.

    ## What is a DevOps Engineer?
    While DevOps is not a specific job title or role, organizations often hire for a "DevOps Engineer" role. A DevOps Engineer is a software engineer who specializes in the practices and [tools](https://roadmap.sh/devops/tools) that enable the continuous delivery of software.

    DevOps Engineers (usually part of a bigger DevOps team) are responsible for bridging the gap between the development and operations teams,  they work closely with developers, testers, and operations staff to oversee the code releases and provide the tools required to automate and expedite the team’s time-to-market while maintaining the quality of the deliverables.

    ## What Does a DevOps Engineer Do?
    A DevOps Engineer plays a key role in simplifying the software development lifecycle by promoting collaboration between dev and ops teams. In other words, by implementing the DevOps approach.

    In the end, these engineers are constantly trying to improve the speed, efficiency, and reliability of software delivery by automating tasks, adding continuous integration and deployment (CI/CD) to simplify code promotion activities, simplify infrastructure management, and least (but definitely not last) set up monitoring and alerting rules.

    They work with developers to ensure that code is efficiently built, tested, and deployed, while also maintaining the underlying infrastructure to keep applications running smoothly. This often involves configuring cloud environments, implementing security best practices, optimizing deployment pipelines, and setting up observability tools to monitor performance.

    Ultimately, a DevOps Engineer helps organizations build and maintain scalable, resilient systems while reducing manual processes and helping minimize downtime.

    ## How do you become a DevOps Engineer?
    To become a DevOps Engineer, you need to have technical skills in areas such as development, automation, containerization, cloud, CI/CD pipelines etc. While being an expert on all of them is hardly ever possible, what ends up happening is that different DevOps engineers specialize in different aspects of the DevOps culture. 

    A few example DevOps tools and technologies to learn may include programming languages like Python or JavaScript for scripting, AWS, Ansible for configuration management, Terraform for managing your infrastructure as code, Docker, Kubernetes, Jenkins, and Git for source control, and monitoring and logging tools. 

    Slowly start gaining experience by working on DevOps projects, developing a DevOps mindset, getting certified, and applying for DevOps Engineer positions by highlighting your skills and experience in your resume. 

    Start your [career path in DevOps engineering](https://roadmap.sh/devops/career-path) by working on some [DevOps projects](https://roadmap.sh/devops/projects).
dimensions:
  width: 968
  height: 2850
schema:
  headline: 'DevOps Roadmap'
  description: 'Learn to become a modern DevOps engineer by following the steps, skills, resources and guides listed in our community-driven roadmap.'
  imageUrl: 'https://roadmap.sh/roadmaps/devops.png'
  datePublished: '2023-01-05'
  dateModified: '2023-06-10'
relatedQuestions:
  - 'backend'
seo:
  title: 'DevOps Roadmap: Learn to become a DevOps Engineer or SRE'
  description: 'Learn to become a modern DevOps engineer by following the steps, skills, resources and guides listed in our community-driven roadmap.'
  keywords:
    - 'devops roadmap 2024'
    - 'sre roadmap 2024'
    - 'operations roadmap 2024'
    - 'guide to becoming a devops engineer'
    - 'devops roadmap'
    - 'sre roadmap'
    - 'site reliability engineer roadmap'
    - 'operations roles'
    - 'become devops'
    - 'devops skills'
    - 'modern devops skills'
    - 'devops skills test'
    - 'skills for devops'
    - 'learn devops'
    - 'what is devops'
    - 'what is sre'
    - 'devops quiz'
    - 'devops interview questions'
relatedRoadmaps:
  - 'backend'
  - 'docker'
  - 'kubernetes'
  - 'python'
  - 'java'
  - 'golang'
  - 'javascript'
  - 'nodejs'
sitemap:
  priority: 1
  changefreq: 'monthly'
tags:
  - 'roadmap'
  - 'main-sitemap'
  - 'role-roadmap'
---

Commit message:

Add support for replacing TNS partner banner

src/data/roadmaps/devops/devops.md, after:

---
jsonUrl: '/jsons/roadmaps/devops.json'
pdfUrl: '/pdfs/roadmaps/devops.pdf'
order: 3
renderer: 'editor'
briefTitle: 'DevOps'
briefDescription: 'Step by step guide for DevOps or operations role in 2025'
title: 'DevOps Roadmap'
description: 'Step by step guide for DevOps, SRE or any other Operations Role in 2025'
hasTopics: true
isForkable: false
partner:
  description: "Get the latest Frontend news from our sister site"
  link: "https://thenewstack.io/?utm_source=roadmap.sh&utm_medium=Referral&utm_campaign=Alert"
  linkText: "TheNewStack.io"
question:
  title: 'What is DevOps?'
  description: |
    DevOps is a cultural and collaborative mindset that emphasizes communication, collaboration, integration, and [automation](https://roadmap.sh/devops/automation) between development and operations teams to achieve faster and more reliable software delivery.

    DevOps is not a specific job title or role, but rather a set of principles and practices that can be applied across a variety of roles in software development and IT operations. Anyone involved in the software development and delivery process can adopt a DevOps mindset and apply DevOps practices in their work, including developers, testers, operations engineers, product managers, and others.

    ## What is a DevOps Engineer?
    While DevOps is not a specific job title or role, organizations often hire for a "DevOps Engineer" role. A DevOps Engineer is a software engineer who specializes in the practices and [tools](https://roadmap.sh/devops/tools) that enable the continuous delivery of software.

    DevOps Engineers (usually part of a bigger DevOps team) are responsible for bridging the gap between the development and operations teams,  they work closely with developers, testers, and operations staff to oversee the code releases and provide the tools required to automate and expedite the team’s time-to-market while maintaining the quality of the deliverables.

    ## What Does a DevOps Engineer Do?
    A DevOps Engineer plays a key role in simplifying the software development lifecycle by promoting collaboration between dev and ops teams. In other words, by implementing the DevOps approach.

    In the end, these engineers are constantly trying to improve the speed, efficiency, and reliability of software delivery by automating tasks, adding continuous integration and deployment (CI/CD) to simplify code promotion activities, simplify infrastructure management, and least (but definitely not last) set up monitoring and alerting rules.

    They work with developers to ensure that code is efficiently built, tested, and deployed, while also maintaining the underlying infrastructure to keep applications running smoothly. This often involves configuring cloud environments, implementing security best practices, optimizing deployment pipelines, and setting up observability tools to monitor performance.

    Ultimately, a DevOps Engineer helps organizations build and maintain scalable, resilient systems while reducing manual processes and helping minimize downtime.

    ## How do you become a DevOps Engineer?
    To become a DevOps Engineer, you need to have technical skills in areas such as development, automation, containerization, cloud, CI/CD pipelines etc. While being an expert on all of them is hardly ever possible, what ends up happening is that different DevOps engineers specialize in different aspects of the DevOps culture. 

    A few example DevOps tools and technologies to learn may include programming languages like Python or JavaScript for scripting, AWS, Ansible for configuration management, Terraform for managing your infrastructure as code, Docker, Kubernetes, Jenkins, and Git for source control, and monitoring and logging tools. 

    Slowly start gaining experience by working on DevOps projects, developing a DevOps mindset, getting certified, and applying for DevOps Engineer positions by highlighting your skills and experience in your resume. 

    Start your [career path in DevOps engineering](https://roadmap.sh/devops/career-path) by working on some [DevOps projects](https://roadmap.sh/devops/projects).
dimensions:
  width: 968
  height: 2850
schema:
  headline: 'DevOps Roadmap'
  description: 'Learn to become a modern DevOps engineer by following the steps, skills, resources and guides listed in our community-driven roadmap.'
  imageUrl: 'https://roadmap.sh/roadmaps/devops.png'
  datePublished: '2023-01-05'
  dateModified: '2023-06-10'
relatedQuestions:
  - 'backend'
seo:
  title: 'DevOps Roadmap: Learn to become a DevOps Engineer or SRE'
  description: 'Learn to become a modern DevOps engineer by following the steps, skills, resources and guides listed in our community-driven roadmap.'
  keywords:
    - 'devops roadmap 2024'
    - 'sre roadmap 2024'
    - 'operations roadmap 2024'
    - 'guide to becoming a devops engineer'
    - 'devops roadmap'
    - 'sre roadmap'
    - 'site reliability engineer roadmap'
    - 'operations roles'
    - 'become devops'
    - 'devops skills'
    - 'modern devops skills'
    - 'devops skills test'
    - 'skills for devops'
    - 'learn devops'
    - 'what is devops'
    - 'what is sre'
    - 'devops quiz'
    - 'devops interview questions'
relatedRoadmaps:
  - 'backend'
  - 'docker'
  - 'kubernetes'
  - 'python'
  - 'java'
  - 'golang'
  - 'javascript'
  - 'nodejs'
sitemap:
  priority: 1
  changefreq: 'monthly'
tags:
  - 'roadmap'
  - 'main-sitemap'
  - 'role-roadmap'
---
