src/data/roadmaps/product-manager/product-manager.md, before:

---
pdfUrl: 'https://roadmap.sh/roadmaps/product-manager.pdf'
order: 19
title: Product Manager
description: Everything you need to know to become a Product Manager.
briefTitle: Product Manager
briefDescription: Everything you need to know to become a Product Manager.
hasTopics: true
isHidden: false
isUpcoming: false
isNew: false
seo:
  title: Product Manager
  description: Learn what product management is, what product managers do and how to become one using our community-driven roadmap.
dimensions:
  width: 968
  height: 5200
schema:
  headline: Product Manager
  description: Learn what product management is, what product managers do and how to become one using our community-driven roadmap.
  datePublished: '2024-06-10'
  dateModified: '2024-06-27'
  imageUrl: https://roadmap.sh/roadmaps/product-manager.png
relatedRoadmaps:
  - 'ux-design'
  - 'data-analyst'
  - 'api-design'
  - 'design-system'
  - 'software-architect'
  - 'engineering-manager'
sitemap:
  priority: 1
  changefreq: monthly
tags:
  - 'roadmap'
  - 'main-sitemap'
  - 'role-roadmap'
renderer: editor
---

Commit message:

Add support for replacing TNS partner banner

src/data/roadmaps/product-manager/product-manager.md, after:

---
pdfUrl: 'https://roadmap.sh/roadmaps/product-manager.pdf'
order: 19
title: Product Manager
description: Everything you need to know to become a Product Manager.
briefTitle: Product Manager
briefDescription: Everything you need to know to become a Product Manager.
hasTopics: true
isHidden: false
isUpcoming: false
isNew: false
partner:
  description: "Ready-to use free on/offboarding templates for new employees"
  link: "https://www.silo.team/book-a-demo-silo-team?utm_source=affiliate1&utm_medium=referral&utm_campaign=free_onboarding_checklist"
  linkText: "silo.team"
seo:
  title: Product Manager
  description: Learn what product management is, what product managers do and how to become one using our community-driven roadmap.
dimensions:
  width: 968
  height: 5200
schema:
  headline: Product Manager
  description: Learn what product management is, what product managers do and how to become one using our community-driven roadmap.
  datePublished: '2024-06-10'
  dateModified: '2024-06-27'
  imageUrl: https://roadmap.sh/roadmaps/product-manager.png
relatedRoadmaps:
  - 'ux-design'
  - 'data-analyst'
  - 'api-design'
  - 'design-system'
  - 'software-architect'
  - 'engineering-manager'
sitemap:
  priority: 1
  changefreq: monthly
tags:
  - 'roadmap'
  - 'main-sitemap'
  - 'role-roadmap'
renderer: editor
---
