src/data/roadmaps/git-github/git-github.md, before:

---
jsonUrl: '/jsons/roadmaps/git-github.json'
pdfUrl: '/pdfs/roadmaps/git-github.pdf'
renderer: 'editor'
order: 19
briefTitle: 'Git and GitHub'
briefDescription: 'Step by step guide to learn Git and GitHub in 2024'
title: 'Git and GitHub Roadmap'
description: 'Step by step guide to learn Git and GitHub in 2024'
hasTopics: true
isNew: true
dimensions:
  width: 968
  height: 3330
schema:
  headline: 'Git and GitHub Roadmap'
  description: 'Learn about Git and GitHub with this interactive step by step guide in 2023. We also have resources and short descriptions attached to the roadmap items so you can get everything you want to learn in one place.'
  imageUrl: 'https://roadmap.sh/roadmaps/git-github.png'
  datePublished: '2024-08-12'
  dateModified: '2024-08-12'
seo:
  title: 'Git and GitHub Roadmap'
  description: 'Learn about Git and GitHub using this roadmap. We also have resources and short descriptions attached to the roadmap items so you can get everything you want to learn in one place.'
  keywords:
    - 'git and github roadmap 2024'
    - 'git roadmap'
    - 'github roadmap'
relatedRoadmaps:
  - 'computer-science'
  - 'frontend'
  - 'backend'
  - 'devops'
  - 'full-stack'
sitemap:
  priority: 1
  changefreq: 'monthly'
tags:
  - 'roadmap'
  - 'main-sitemap'
  - 'skill-roadmap'
---

Commit message:

Change title for git and github roadmap

src/data/roadmaps/git-github/git-github.md, after:

---
jsonUrl: '/jsons/roadmaps/git-github.json'
pdfUrl: '/pdfs/roadmaps/git-github.pdf'
renderer: 'editor'
order: 19
briefTitle: 'Git and GitHub'
briefDescription: 'Step by step guide to learn Git and GitHub in 2024'
title: 'Learn Git and GitHub'
description: 'Step by step guide to learn Git and GitHub in 2024'
hasTopics: true
isNew: true
dimensions:
  width: 968
  height: 3330
schema:
  headline: 'Learn Git and GitHub'
  description: 'Learn about Git and GitHub with this interactive step by step guide in 2023. We also have resources and short descriptions attached to the roadmap items so you can get everything you want to learn in one place.'
  imageUrl: 'https://roadmap.sh/roadmaps/git-github.png'
  datePublished: '2024-08-12'
  dateModified: '2024-08-12'
seo:
  title: 'Learn Git and GitHub'
  description: 'Learn about Git and GitHub using this roadmap. We also have resources and short descriptions attached to the roadmap items so you can get everything you want to learn in one place.'
  keywords:
    - 'learn git and github 2024'
    - 'git roadmap'
    - 'learn github'
relatedRoadmaps:
  - 'computer-science'
  - 'frontend'
  - 'backend'
  - 'devops'
  - 'full-stack'
sitemap:
  priority: 1
  changefreq: 'monthly'
tags:
  - 'roadmap'
  - 'main-sitemap'
  - 'skill-roadmap'
---
