# Oop
Object Oriented Programming, as the name implies, is focused on the concept of *objects*. 

## Fundamental Concepts
- Objects
  - An entity, concept, or "thing" in your software solution.
  - Is an instance of an abstract data type (an instance of a class).
  - Have state or data (in the form of variables).
  - Have behavior or operations (in the form of functions).
  - Objects represent an abstraction of a real concept.
- Encapsulation
  - The idea of bundling data and behavior, also known as information hiding. Often used to hide the internal representation, or state of an object from the outside or to control access to the internal state of an object.
  - Encapsulation is one of the most important object oriented properties. It refers to not only packaging together the data and the code into a cohesive whole but to hiding the data and the code behind an interface. 
- Inheritance
  - When a class derives from another class. The child class inherits properties and behaviors from the parent class but can also have its own unique properties and behaviors.
  - Inheritance is a form of reuse provided by object-oriented programming that fits the Liskov Substitution Principle.
- Polymorphism
  - Polymorphism describes the ability of an object to take on many forms.
  - The two most common types of polymorphism are dynamic and static.
- Abstraction
  - The concept of using simple things such as objects, classes and variables, to represent underlying complexity.
  - Abstraction helps in utilizing DRY principles as it helps avoid repeating the same work, or code, multiple times.

## Tools and Technical Approaches
- OOAD 
  - Object-oriented Analysis and Design is a technical approach that aims to describe what the system should do, in terms of key objects in the problem domain, and how the system will work using said objects.
- CRC
  - Class, Responsibilities, and Collaborators, cards are a brainstorming tool. The goal of using CRC cards is to create several different variations of a given class and is best suited for early stages of object oriented design.
  - CRC cards are created from index cards that are divided into three unequal sections. These sections are laid out into one row at the top of the card, and two unequal columns below it and represent the key elements of the class in question. The top row represents the class's name, while the two columns represent the class's responsibilities and collaborators respectively.

